Create documentation for connecting Astro to external data services (#480)
astronomer/docs: astro/connect-external-services.md

---
sidebar_label: "Connect to External Services"
title: "Connect Astro to External Data Services"
id: connect-external-services
description: Learn how to connect your Astro Data Plane to different types of external data services.
---

## Overview

> Before you can run pipelines on Astro with real data, you first need to make your data services accessible to the Data Plane. This guide explains how to securely connect your Astro Clusters to external data services using the following methods:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you can run pipelines on Astro with real data, you first need to make your data services accessible to Deployments in your Data Plane. This guide explains how to securely connect Astro to external data services using the following methods:
```

To create a VPC peering connection between an Astro Cluster's VPC and a target VPC, reach out to [Astronomer support](https://support.astronomer.io) and provide the following information:

- Name of your Cluster
- AWS Account ID for the target VPC
- AWS Region for the target VPC
- VPC ID of the target VPC
- CIDR of the target VPC

From there, Astronomer will initiate a peering request. To connect successfully, this peering request must be accepted by the owner of the target VPC.

Once peering is set up, the owner of the target VPC can expect to continue to work with our team to update the routing tables of both VPCs to direct traffic to each other.

### DNS Considerations with VPC Peering

To resolve DNS hostnames from your target VPC, your Cluster VPC has **DNS Hostnames**, **DNS Resolutions**, and **Requester DNS Resolution** enabled via AWS [Peering Connection settings](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/peering/modify-peering-connections.html).  

> If your target VPC also resolves DNS hostnames via **DNS Hostnames** and **DNS Resolution**, you must also enable the **Accepter DNS Resolution** setting. This allows the Data Plane to resolve the public DNS hostnames of the target VPC to its private IP addresses. To configure this option, see [AWS Documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/peering/modify-peering-connections.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your target VPC resolves DNS hostnames via **DNS Hostnames** and **DNS Resolution**, you must also enable the **Accepter DNS Resolution** setting. This allows the Data Plane to resolve the public DNS hostnames of the target VPC to its private IP addresses. To configure this option, see [AWS Documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/peering/modify-peering-connections.html).
```
